Pulse Oximeter Module

This project was done as part of the coursework for ECEN-5613 (Embedded System Design) at University of Colorado, Boulder.

A MAX30101WING sensor was integrated with the Atmel 8051 MCU. Since the MAX30101 works on a 3.3V power supply, a 3.3V voltage level translator was used. This sensor also works on I2C communication protocol for which a 5V to 3.3V logic level converter was used. After facing significant challenges integrating this module with the 8051, a breakout board from SparkFun was used. This module was different from the MAX30101WING in that in addition to the MAX30101 sensor, it also had a sensor hub (MAX32664) which consisted of proprietary algorithm from the manufacturer to process the IR LED and red LED values for the calculation of SpO2 and heart rate. This module was initially integrated with the 8051, however due to challenges faced in this design as well, details of which will be discussed in a later section, it was successfully integrated with ARM STM32 board. The measured SpO2 and heart rate values received from ARM were then transferred to the 8051 (via serial communication: a simple python script was written to transfer the data received at COM5 to COM4 ) and print it onto a 128x64 Graphical LCD. Bresenham’s Line Algorithm was used to plot the values of the IR LED which represent the pulsatile flow of blood representing the heartbeat cycle. When plotting on the LCD screen all the IR values were scaled to fit between 0 and 32 on the y-axis of the LCD.
